metabolism could provide a way to attack
cancer on a totally different level than
what we're doing with genetics
we've been approaching cancer treatment
the same way for well over a hundred
years surgery chemotherapy radiation we
have to ask questions we have too much
information and there's too much
research now that we're not integrating
therapeutic nutrition oncology nutrition
therapeutic diets metabolic therapies
like ketosis and fasting right alongside
with chemotherapy and radiation it's
time for all the patients to know and
it's time that oncology nutrition be
part of the standard of care what seems
to be happening is that the fasting and
the fasting in diet are making the
cancer much more visible to the immune
system so normally you don't see immune
cells moving into the cancer why because
the cancer cells come from the same body
so they learn how to tell the immune
system stay away from from the same
organism in some cases at least or in
many cases possibly the fasting
mimicking diets are as good as
immunotherapy and so we're very excited
also because of the cost somebody poor
to say i don't really need the 100 000
drug
i can just do it
you know for free or almost for free
i get a call one day from a woman who
asked if she and her husband could come
talk to me and i said sure she had
gotten this diagnosis of a brain tumor
out of the blue
young very healthy woman younger kids
and this was like you know
sudden
they had a friend in maine who did a
ketogenic diet for his brain tumor and
when they went online also they found my
work
so they came and she did really well
to the point where the physicians
that up to now had been telling me
yeah yeah you're a scientist it looks
good and nice just going down all of a
sudden went hey wait a minute maybe we
should look at this um
so some of the couple other physicians
couple neurosurgeons got interested in
this because this patient did so well
and another patient also went on it and
did quite well while she was on it the
first thing they thought the ketogenic
diet did was reduce blood glucose tumors
want glucose glucose is just sugar so it
seemed very logical to reduce the
glucose starve the tumor but it's so
much more than that
so much more than that we're getting
less swelling we're getting less
angiogenesis we're getting genes
changing that should make the blood
vessels tighter the other thing that
people started to see with ketogenic
diet and ketones is it has
neuroprotective things that go on
what if these ketones actually help
protect the normal brain
from
chemo radiation whatever
while not protecting the tumor
holy mackerel you got the holy grail
[Music]
you